# bioinformatics-exercise

## Exercise 1

Write a **Python** function that takes as input: (1) a specific restriction enzyme's cut site sequence (e.g., "GATC" for HindIII); (2) the path to an existing FASTA file; (3) and the path to an output bed file. The function reads the records of the FASTA and searches their s. The output is written as a BED file containing the location of all the occurrences of the searched restriction site sequence.

### Input example

You can use the sequence of human chromosome 22 as input, and search for "GATC" sequence occurrences. The FASTA file can be downloaded [here](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/nuccore/CM000684.1?report=fasta).

### Tips

- Use `biopython` to efficiently read the FASTA file (there are multiple FASTA parsers, choose the optimal one).
- Be careful about the standards in terms of base indexing for BED files. The definition fo BED format is available [here](https://genome.ucsc.edu/FAQ/FAQformat.html#format1).

## Exercise 2

Write a **Python** function that takes as input two lists of sequences, all of the same length. The first list is actually **a set** of sequences (i.e., each item appears only once) and contains expected condition-identifying barcodes (ECIBs). The second list contains the barcode sequences obtained from the reads generated by a sequencing experiment. The function should first check the minimum hamming distance between the input ECIBs and inform the user by printing a message. Then, it should assign each barcode sequence from the reads to the closest ECIB. When a barcode can be assigned to the multiple ECIBs, the function should store them in a separate file called "orphans.tsv". As output, the function should print each ECIB with the number of assigned sequences from the second list.

### Input example

A gzipped list of sequences from a sequencing experiment is available in [data/barcodes.txt.gz](data/barcodes.txt.gz). The ECIBs list is the following: CATCACGC, GTCGTCGC, ACGACCGC, TGATGCGC, CATCAATC, GTCGTATC.

## Exercise 3

Regenerate the figure 2h from the GPSeq paper using `ggplot2` in R. The paper is accessible [at this link](https://rdcu.be/cjNgO), and the source data is available [here](https://github.com/ggirelli/GPSeq-source-data/blob/master/figures/fig-02/fig-02-h.tsv).
